Centralize attributes definition (#722)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/common/common.md

# Context

<details>
<summary>
Table of Contents
</summary>

- [Attributes](#attribute)

</details>

## Attributes

Attributes represent a list with zero or more key:value pairs (`Attribute`). An `Attribute` is defined by the following properties:

- (Required) The attribute key, which MUST be a non-`null` and non-empty string.
- (Required) The attribute value, which is either:
  - A primitive type: string, boolean or double (IEEE 754-1985) and int64.
  - An array of primitive type values. The array MUST be homogeneous,
    i.e. it MUST NOT contain values of different types. For protocols that do

>     not natively support array values such values MUST be represented as JSON strings.

Reviewer: I would add here the sentence that describes the behavior in case of `null` values

Author: Where is that?

Reviewer 2: Two of the last paragraphs at https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/trace/api.md#set-attributes I think they should probably be mostly also moved.

Author: I can do that.

Reviewer: Then, I'll close my PR in favor of this :)

Author: Also sorry, my intention was to fix the issue with double vs numeric, and I ended up fixing both by mistake :)

Reviewer: No worries :) This way, you are killing two birds with one stone :)

Author: Was my laziness that did that :)) did not want to change the text of numeric in 3 places :))

Author: Done. Copied the text.

> # Context

Reviewer 2: I think this top level heading should be something else

```suggestion
# Common specification concepts
```

maybe? Could also use an introductory paragraph.

<details>
<summary>
Table of Contents
</summary>

- [Attributes](#attribute)

</details>

## Attributes

> Attributes represent a list with zero or more key:value pairs (`Attribute`). An `Attribute` is defined by the following properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attributes are a list of zero or more key-value pairs. An `Attribute` MUST have the following properties:
```

"represent" is wrong I think. If we want to use that verb, it should be "are represented by" but I think just "are" is simpler.

> Attributes represent a list with zero or more key:value pairs (`Attribute`). An `Attribute` is defined by the following properties:

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we need can specify more generally what happens when multiple kv-pairs with the same key exist?

In the span API we have:

> Attributes SHOULD preserve the order in which they're set. Setting an attribute
with the same key as an existing attribute SHOULD overwrite the existing
attribute's value.

Should this also apply to resources for example? If not, as written now, I think we technically require all key-value-pairs to be preserved.

Author: Trying to not add new content if it was not there before :)

> - (Required) The attribute key, which MUST be a non-`null` and non-empty string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The attribute key, which MUST be a non-`null` and non-empty string.
```

If we use "MUST have" above, I think we leave this out.

> - (Required) The attribute value, which is either:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The attribute value, which is either:
```

>   - A primitive type: string, boolean or double (IEEE 754-1985) and int64.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A primitive type: string, boolean, double precision floating point (IEEE 754-1985) or signed 64 bit integer.
```

  - An array of primitive type values. The array MUST be homogeneous,
    i.e. it MUST NOT contain values of different types. For protocols that do

>     not natively support array values such values MUST be represented as JSON strings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    not natively support array values such values SHOULD be represented as JSON strings.
```

I think adding a MUST that applies to all protocols we don't know is too much. But changing this might be out of scope for this PR.

`null` values within arrays MUST be preserved as-is (i.e., passed on to span
processors / exporters as `null`). If exporters do not support exporting `null`
values, they MAY replace those values by 0, `false`, or empty strings.

> This is required for map/dictionary structures represented as two arrays with

Reviewer 3: Is the required here a MUST overriding the previous MAY? I'm not sure how to interpret this sentence

Reviewer 2: This is a note that explains the rationale for both of the above together. It is meant to ban SDKs and exporters from just dropping the null values from the array (changing the index of following elements).

> `null` values within arrays MUST be preserved as-is

Is what basically applies.

> exporters [...] MAY replace those values

This is a relaxation for exporters. Notice how they MAY replace those values, but we do not allow them to drop them. So if they choose not to exercise the MAY, the "`null` values within arrays MUST be preserved as-is" applies.

That is how I read it, and I'm pretty sure that's how it was meant originally (CC @arminru). But it could be worded more clearly.
